How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

	Staging area is the area visible to git which is changed and to be committed when git commit is run.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
	
	Add the file which you have changed and want to commit to staging area using "git add filename" followed by "git commit" . This will commit the changes you made to the filename you specified.


Git commands
	git init 				: Make a directory a git repository.
	git status				: shows the status of the directory and repository (i.e. Tracked and Untracked files)
	git log 				: Displays commit log
	git commit 				: Commits the changes in staging area.
	git add 				: Add a file to staging area.
	git diff commit1 commit2: Diffs b/w 2 commits
	git diff --staged		: diffs between latest commit (head commit) and staging area.
	git diff 				: Diffs between Working directory and staging area.
	git checkout commit_id	: jumps head to the commit_id i.e. restore to a previous version.
	git checkout branch_name: jumps head to the tip of the branch specified
	git checkout -b branch_name	: Creates a branch branch_name and puts head on it.
	git branch				: Shows all the branch tips and the branch tip head is currently on.
	git branch branch_name  : Creates a new branch with  the name branch_name.
	git merge branch1 branch2: Merges branch1 with branch2 . If you were on branch1 when merging, new merged branch will 							be named 1 and vice versa. If you were on branch3 (any other branch) it will also be merged 						   with these two and merged branch will be branch3.
	git log --graph --oneline : displays git log graph with branching merging etc and each commit in one line.
	git log -n no_of_commits : Displays only no_of_commits commits.



What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?
	
	When we want to make more than one changes in our project as well as keep the previous version intact , we can use branching. They will create 2 or more different profiles (branches) of project to work on which later can be merged. 
	One branch is always master branch and other branches have names (specified when creating them).


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
	
	Every Commit has a parent that is the tip of the branch (or the current checked out commit) . If you checkout to a commit (not a branch) and make a commit there and then checkout to another commit , the new commit is lost if you haven't stored its id.


What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
	
	On merging 2 branches , a new commit is created and your current branch tip goes to it. This commit will have both the parents thus we represent it in the diagram as we do.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

	Pros : Automatically merges two branches/commits if there are no conflicts (i.e. no line which is modified in both 		   commits from their common ancestor).

	If there is a conflict , open the conflicted file it shows three diff contents of conflicted area , that of current branch , the common ancestor commit , 2nd branch (to which you are merging) respectively. You can resolve the commit then.



	

